This exercise was pretty tough.
Let's talk through the two different ways that I used otsu's method.
First, I used otsu's method to extract background pixels
from all of my images using a threshold intensity value of 50.
This allowed me to look at the intensity distributions for breast tissue only,
in both fatty tissue and in dense tissue.
I then used scipy.stats.mode to identify the mode,
in other words, the peak of each type of tissues intensity distribution.
Here, fatty tissue had a peak at 140 and dense tissue had a peak at 176.
I then looped through all of my fatty images and separated out their background,
again using otsu's method with an intensity threshold of 50.
I then calculated how far each images' peak
was from the peaks of the fatty and dense tissue distributions.
Finally, I determined which difference was smaller to
determine what type of tissue my image was most likely from.
You can see that this method failed on three images,
classifying them as dense instead of fatty.
This means that for those three images,
their intensity peak was closer to 176,
the peak of the dense tissue,
than it was to 140,
the peak of the fatty tissue.
This is a great example of how using a single feature of
intensity distribution with a simple machine learning tool,
can get us decent results.
But this intensity information is not enough to give us perfect performance.